README.md, before:

# SAGE (IntruSion alert-driven Attack Graph Extractor)
Repository to accompany our publications

"SAGE: Intrusion Alert-driven Attack Graph Extractor" at VizSec'21, and

"Alert-driven Attack Graph Generation using S-PDFA" at TDSC'21.

## Requires
- Flexfringe (https://github.com/tudelft-cda-lab/FlexFringe)
- Python packages
  - `graphviz`
  - `requests`
  - `numpy`
  - `matplotlib`

**Or you can switch to the `docker` branch for a docker container.**


## Usage
`python sage.py path_to_json_files experiment_name [-h] [-t T] [-w W] [--timerange STARTRANGE ENDRANGE] [--dataset {cptc,other}] [--keep-files]`

Required positional arguments:

* `path_to_json_files`: Directory containing intrusion alerts in json format. `sample-input.json` provides an example of the accepted file format.
> Ideal setting: One json file for each attacker/team. Filename considered as attacker/team label.
* `experiment_name`: Custom name for all artefacts.
> Figures, trace files, model files, attack graphs are saved with this prefix for easy identification.

Options:

* `-h`, `--help`: Show the help message and exit.
* `-t`: Time window in which duplicate alerts are discarded (default: 1.0 sec).
* `-w`: Aggregate alerts occuring in this window as one episode (default: 150 sec).
* `--timerange`: A floating-point tuple limiting the alerts that are parsed and involved in the final attack graphs (default: (0, 100)).
> If not provided, the default values of (0,100) are used, meaning alerts from 0-th to 100-th hour (relative to the start of the alert capture) are parsed.
* `--dataset`: The name of the dataset with the alerts (default: other, available options: cptc, other).
> Since the IP addresses of the attackers are known for the CPTC dataset, irrelevant alerts are filtered out.
* `--keep-files`: Do not delete the dot files after the program ends.
> By default, the generated dot files with the attack graphs are deleted. They might, however, be useful for analytics or testing.

Examples:

* Run SAGE with the default parameters on the CPTC-2017 dataset: `python sage.py alerts/cptc-2017/ exp-2017 --dataset cptc`
* Run SAGE with the time window of 2.0 seconds and the alert aggregation window of 200 seconds on the CPTC-2018 dataset: `python sage.py alerts/cptc-2018/ exp-2018 -t 2.0 -w 200 --dataset cptc`
* Run SAGE on the CCDC dataset and do not delete the dot files (you can omit `--dataset other`): `python sage.py alerts/ccdc/ exp-ccdc --dataset other --keep-files`

Tip: in case you often use the same non-default values, you can create an alias (e.g `alias sage="python sage.py -t 1.5 --dataset cptc --keep-files"` and then run `sage alerts/cptc-2017/ exp-2017`)

## First time use

- Clone [FlexFringe repository](https://github.com/tudelft-cda-lab/FlexFringe)
- Move `spdfa-config.ini` file to `FlexFringe/ini/` directory. Alternatively, you can set the `path_to_ini` variable in `sage.py` to `"./spdfa-config.ini"`
- In case you move the `FlexFringe/` directory to another location, update the function `flexfringe` in `model_learning.py` accordingly.
- A sample alert file is provided with the name `sample-input.json` (T5 alerts from CPTC-2018) to test SAGE. Use the following command:

`python sage.py alerts/ firstExp`

where `alerts/` contains `sample-input.json`. For other options, see Usage section above.

**If you use SAGE in a scientific work, consider citing the following papers:**

```
@inproceedings{nadeem2021sage,
  title={SAGE: Intrusion Alert-driven Attack Graph Extractor},
  author={Nadeem, Azqa and Verwer, Sicco and Yang, Shanchieh Jay},
  booktitle={Symposium on Visualization for Cyber Security (Vizec)},
  publisher={IEEE},
  year={2021}
}
```
```
@article{nadeem2021alert,
  title={Alert-driven Attack Graph Generation using S-PDFA},
  author={Nadeem, Azqa and Verwer, Sicco and Moskal, Stephen and Yang, Shanchieh Jay},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC)},
  year={2021},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```
```
@inproceedings{nadeem2021enabling,
  title={Enabling visual analytics via alert-driven attack graphs},
  author={Nadeem, Azqa and Verwer, Sicco and Moskal, Stephen and Yang, Shanchieh Jay},
  booktitle={SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS)},
  year={2021},
  publisher={ACM}
}
```



#### Azqa Nadeem
#### TU Delft

Commit message:

Set GitHub Actions with test cases (#46)
* Add method-level documentation for SAGE

* Add test files for SAGE

* Add sudo to apt in the workflow

* Add GitHub token to the workflow

* Add gzipped alerts

* Add extracting alerts to workflow

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update test.yml

* Update stats-ff.sh

* Update test-ags.sh

* Update test.yml

* Update test scripts

* Update workflow file

* Fix PEP warnings

* Add Python style guide checker to workflow

* Address the comments on PR

* Add CONTRIBUTING.md

* Address some comments for the PR

* Add 'changes-ids' to the workflow

* Add chmod back to the workflow file

* Update test.yml

* Remove unnecessary command from test.yml

* Fix missing alert windows at the end

* Update diff-ags.sh and test-ags.sh

* Mention the docker branch in CONTRIBUTING.md

* Update tests.py

* Remove blank lines

* Remove printing in ag_generation.py

README.md, after:

# SAGE (IntruSion alert-driven Attack Graph Extractor)
Repository to accompany our publications

"SAGE: Intrusion Alert-driven Attack Graph Extractor" at VizSec'21, and

"Alert-driven Attack Graph Generation using S-PDFA" at TDSC'21.

## Requires
- Flexfringe (https://github.com/tudelft-cda-lab/FlexFringe)
- Python packages
  - `graphviz`
  - `requests`
  - `numpy`
  - `matplotlib`

**Or you can switch to the `docker` branch for a docker container.**


## Usage
`python sage.py path_to_json_files experiment_name [-h] [-t T] [-w W] [--timerange STARTRANGE ENDRANGE] [--dataset {cptc,other}] [--keep-files]`

Required positional arguments:

* `path_to_json_files`: Directory containing intrusion alerts in json format. `sample-input.json` provides an example of the accepted file format.
> Ideal setting: One json file for each attacker/team. Filename considered as attacker/team label.
* `experiment_name`: Custom name for all artefacts.
> Figures, trace files, model files, attack graphs are saved with this prefix for easy identification.

Options:

* `-h`, `--help`: Show the help message and exit.
* `-t`: Time window in which duplicate alerts are discarded (default: 1.0 sec).
* `-w`: Aggregate alerts occuring in this window as one episode (default: 150 sec).
* `--timerange`: A floating-point tuple limiting the alerts that are parsed and involved in the final attack graphs (default: (0, 100)).
> If not provided, the default values of (0,100) are used, meaning alerts from 0-th to 100-th hour (relative to the start of the alert capture) are parsed.
* `--dataset`: The name of the dataset with the alerts (default: other, available options: cptc, other).
> Since the IP addresses of the attackers are known for the CPTC dataset, irrelevant alerts are filtered out.
* `--keep-files`: Do not delete the dot files after the program ends.
> By default, the generated dot files with the attack graphs are deleted. They might, however, be useful for analytics or testing.

Examples:

* Run SAGE with the default parameters on the CPTC-2017 dataset: `python sage.py alerts/cptc-2017/ exp-2017 --dataset cptc`
* Run SAGE with the time window of 2.0 seconds and the alert aggregation window of 200 seconds on the CPTC-2018 dataset: `python sage.py alerts/cptc-2018/ exp-2018 -t 2.0 -w 200 --dataset cptc`
* Run SAGE on the CCDC dataset and do not delete the dot files (you can omit `--dataset other`): `python sage.py alerts/ccdc/ exp-ccdc --dataset other --keep-files`

Tip: in case you often use the same non-default values, you can create an alias (e.g `alias sage="python sage.py -t 1.5 --dataset cptc --keep-files"` and then run `sage alerts/cptc-2017/ exp-2017`)

## First time use

- Clone [FlexFringe repository](https://github.com/tudelft-cda-lab/FlexFringe).
- Move `spdfa-config.ini` file to `FlexFringe/ini/` directory. Alternatively, you can set the `path_to_ini` variable in `sage.py` to `"./spdfa-config.ini"`.
- In case you move the `FlexFringe/` directory to another location, update the function `flexfringe` in `model_learning.py` accordingly.
- You can find the compressed alerts for the [Collegiate Penetration Testing Competition (CPTC)](https://cp.tc/research) and [Collegiate Cyber Defense Competition (CCDC)](https://github.com/FrankHassanabad/suricata-sample-data) datasets (taken from the linked sources) in the `alerts/` directory. To uncompress the alerts, run:

  `find alerts/ -type f -name '*.gz' | xargs gunzip`

  from the root directory of the repository. You can add other datasets, however make sure that they follow the same format.
- You can run SAGE with the default parameters using the following command:

  `python sage.py alerts/ firstExp`,

  where `alerts/` contains the uncompressed alerts. For other options, see Usage section above.

**If you use SAGE in a scientific work, consider citing the following papers:**

```
@inproceedings{nadeem2021sage,
  title={SAGE: Intrusion Alert-driven Attack Graph Extractor},
  author={Nadeem, Azqa and Verwer, Sicco and Yang, Shanchieh Jay},
  booktitle={Symposium on Visualization for Cyber Security (Vizec)},
  publisher={IEEE},
  year={2021}
}
```
```
@article{nadeem2021alert,
  title={Alert-driven Attack Graph Generation using S-PDFA},
  author={Nadeem, Azqa and Verwer, Sicco and Moskal, Stephen and Yang, Shanchieh Jay},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing (TDSC)},
  year={2021},
  publisher={IEEE}
}
```
```
@inproceedings{nadeem2021enabling,
  title={Enabling visual analytics via alert-driven attack graphs},
  author={Nadeem, Azqa and Verwer, Sicco and Moskal, Stephen and Yang, Shanchieh Jay},
  booktitle={SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS)},
  year={2021},
  publisher={ACM}
}
```



#### Azqa Nadeem
#### TU Delft
